# Poker
## Sorting Strategies
As mentioned, the strategy used to sort our poker hand depends on the type of poker hand we have. For simplicity, we will assume that we have a 5 card hand. With this in mind, we can categorize poker hands into the following groups.

### Sort by Card name
Technically speaking, High card and Straight are the only poker hand in this category because they are the only poker hands judge solely by card name. That said, sorting by card name is the seconary short for most poker hands. For example, if you are comparing One pair poker hands and both hands have a pair of aces, you will have to look at the rest of the cards in both hands to determine the winner.

### Sort by Card name and Suite
Royal flush, Straight flush, and flush can all be sorted by card name while giving priority to a single suite. If you only have 5 cards in your hand like we do, then you can ignore the suite because all 5 cards will have the same suite which means that we no longer have to worry about prioritizing a suite. As a result, we can use the "Sort by Card name" to sort these hands.

Note: For the poker hands Straight and Straight flush, we do have an edge case involving our Ace. An Ace can be at the front of the Straight <A,K,Q,J,10> or the end of a Straight <5,4,3,2,A>. Since the Ace is has a Card name value of 14, it will naturally move towards the front of the list. This means that post sorting, we have to manually check for the edge case where the Ace should be at the end of the list and move it there. 

### Short by Card name with priority to a single card name
Two pair, Three pair, and Four of a kind are in the same category because they all prioritize a single Card name when sorting. Once all the Cards with this Card name are placed in the front of the list, the rest of the cards are sorted by Card name.

### Sort by Card name while prioritizing 2 card names (order matters)
This sort is specifically for the poker hand Full House. A Full House is when you have Three of a kind and a Pair in the same hand. To sort this hand, we want to proritize the Three of a kind over the Pair. This means that we have to identify which card name is associated with the Three of a Kind and Pair and make sure that we prioritize the Card name associated with the Three of a kind over the one associated with the Pair.

## PokerHand
A couple things you may have noticed when listing out the sorting strategies for the poker hands is that most of these sorting strageties depend on extra information. Mainly, we need to know what poker hand type we have and which Card names we need to prioritize. So lets start outlining our code.

Our PokerHand Struct needs to hold a hand of cards and needs to have a place to store its poker hand type.

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Ord, PartialOrd, Eq, PartialEq)]
enum PokerHandType {
    RoyalFlush,
    StraightFlush,
    FourOfAKind,
    FullHouse,
    Flush,
    Straight,
    ThreeOfAKind,
    TwoPair,
    Pair,
    HighCard,
}

#[derive(Debug)]
struct PokerHand {
    cards: Vec<Card>,
    poker_hand_type: Option<PokerHandType>,
}

impl PokerHand {
	def new() -> Self {
		PokerHand{cards: Vec::new(), poker_hand_type: None}
	}
}
```
In our code, we made the PokerHandType an enum where the variants are the different poker hands. We also order the poker hand variants from best hand to worst hand. We did this so that we can use the derived implementations of the Ord Trait and all the other Traits needed to implement the Ord Trait. This is our first time doing this with Enums, but it works the same way as it does with Structs. This means we can now compare and sort the variants of our PokerHandType enums and, because we defined them in the order of strongest hand to weakest hand, the sorted list will placed the stronger hands in front of the weaker hands.

For our PokerHand Struct, have our Vector of Cards and an Optional PokerHandType Enum. The PokerHandType is optional because it should only be deduced after we have all five Cards in our hand. With that in mind, lets create functions and methods for PokerHand that allow us to create a new hand and add cards to it.

```rust,noplayground
impl PokerHand {
    fn new() -> Self {
        PokerHand {
            cards: Vec::new(),
            poker_hand_type: None,
        }
    }

    fn add_card(&mut self, card: Card) -> Result<(), &'static str> {
        // Our card hand limit is 5.
        if self.cards.len() == 5 {
            return Err("Max hand limit is 5");
        }

        self.cards.push(card);
        Ok(())
    }
}
```
Our `new` function creates and empty PokerHand with no cards and the poker_hand_type set to None. Our `add_cards` method allows us to add a Card to our PokerHand. This method returns a Result because our PokerHand has a 5 card limit. If we try to add a 6th card, we will raise an error.

Now that we have the ability to add cards to our hand, lets move on to deducing our poker_hand_type. We can do this with three helper methods; card_rank_histogram, have_flush and have_straight.

The card_rank_histogram method counts how many times each card rank is represented in our hand and return a histrogram in the form of a list of tuples where the tuple is (card_rank as u8, count as usize). This list will be returned sorted by count and card rank in descending order. This means that if our hand is <1,9,1,1,1>, we will get [(1,4), (9, 1)].

The reason this histogram is important is because a number of poker hands are based on how many times a card rank is represented in your hand. For example, FourOfAKind, FullHouse, ThreeOfAKind, TwoPair, and OnePair can all be deduced by looking at the first two entries of our histogram list (ie, the top two highest represented card ranks in our hand).

The have_flush and have_straight are methods that return booleans. They are used to deduce all other poker hand types. For example, if you have a flush and a striaght, then we must look at your cards because you could have a RoyalFlush, StriaghtFlush or a Flush. If you don't have a flush, but you have a striaght, then you have a Striaght. If you do not have a flush or a straight, then you have a HighCard.

```rust,noplayground
fn card_rank_histogram(&self) -> Vec<(u8, usize)> {
    let mut map = HashMap::new();

    for card in &self.cards {
        map.entry(card.name)
            .and_modify(|count| *count += 1)
            .or_insert(1);
    }

    let mut results: Vec<(u8, usize)> = map
        .iter()
        .map(|(k, v)| (k.clone(), v.clone() as usize))
        .collect();
    results.sort_by(|a, b| a.1.cmp(&b.1).then(a.0.cmp(&b.0)).reverse());

    results
}
```
The card_rank_histogram code using a HashMap to get a count of the card ranks. The Hashmap Entry API allows us to counting logic into one line. `map.entry(card.name)` is the starting point to the Entry API. This call returns a Entry Enum Variant that is either Occupied or Vaccant. If the `card.name` exists in the HashMap, `map.entry` will return `Entry::Occupied`. The `Entry::Occupied` enum variant has code for the `and_modify` method that will take the value associated with this key and pass it to the anonimous function passed to the `and_modify` method. We then take this value, which represents our count and then add one to it.

If `card.name` does not exist in the hashmap, `map.entry` will return `Entry::Vaccant`. The `Entry::Vacant` enum variant has code for the `or_insert(1)` method that will `card.name` to the HashMap as a new entry and set the value to 1.

The confusing part about the Entry API is that it leverages No-op (no operation) calls to work. For example, the `or_insert` method is called on the `Entry::Occupied` enum variant, but it has no effect because it is a No-op call. The same is true for calling the `and_modify` method on the `Entry::Vaccant` enum variant. So, in order to understand what the code is doing, you have to think about what happens in both cases. If it is the first time the HashMap has seen this card name, we give it a count of 1. If it is not the first time we have seen this card name, we take its current count and add 1 to it.

The next part of the code uses iterators to covert the HashMap into a Vector of Tuples. We do this via the `map` method, which gives us access to the key and value of the HashMap as a tuple. Not wanting to take ownership of these values, we clone and cast them as needed to get the type we want. We then use the `collect` method to place our tuples in a Vector. We do this by explicitly stating the type of our variable (`let mut results: Vec<(u8, usize)> = ...`).

Once we have our list, we sort it by the count (tuple index 1) and then card name (tuple index 0). Calling `reverse` on the end of the compare chain ensures that the largest values will be at the beginning of the list, which gives us descending order.

```rust,noplayground
fn have_flush(&self) -> bool {
    let mut result = true;

    let suite = &self.cards[0].suite;
    for card in &self.cards[1..] {
        if card.suite != *suite {
            result = false;
            break;
        }
    }

    result
}
```

The have_flush code is straight forward in the sense we look at the suite of the first card in the list and then check to see if the rest of the cards in the list have the same suite. If so, we have a flush and return true. Otherwise we return false.

```rust,noplayground
fn have_straight(&self) -> bool {
    let mut ranks: Vec<u8> = self.cards.iter().map(|card| card.name.clone()).collect();

    ranks.sort();

    if ranks == [2, 3, 4, 5, 14] {
        true
    } else {
        let mut result = true;

	    let mut expected = ranks[0];
        for num in ranks {
            if num != expected {
                result = false;
                break;
            }

        expected += 1
        }

    result
    }
}
```

The have_straight code off with creating a mutable list of card ranks. We do this so that we can sort them because, in theory, to have a straight means that your first rank in the list is your starting point and every rank after it should be +1 the previous rank. The exception to this rule is when your straight starts at the Ace <A,2,3,4,5>. In that case, your sorted list would be <2,3,4,5,14>. In the code, we explicitly check for this case to make sure it gets handled and, for all other cases, we use our "in theory" logic to check if the hand has a straight.


Now that we have all of the helper methods done, we can write the code to deduce and set our poker hand type.

```rust,noplayground
    fn set_hand_type(&mut self) -> Result<(), &'static str> {
        if self.cards.len() != 5 {
            return Err("Must have 5 Cards to set hand type");
        }

        self.poker_hand_type = None;

        let card_rank_histogram = self.card_rank_histogram();

        // Check Poker hand Types that have multiple cards of the same rank
        if card_rank_histogram[0].1 == 4 {
            self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::FourOfAKind);
        } else if card_rank_histogram[0].1 == 3 && card_rank_histogram[1].1 == 2 {
            self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::FullHouse);
        } else if card_rank_histogram[0].1 == 3 && card_rank_histogram[1].1 == 1 {
            self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::ThreeOfAKind);
        } else if card_rank_histogram[0].1 == 2 && card_rank_histogram[1].1 == 2 {
            self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::TwoPair);
        } else if card_rank_histogram[0].1 == 2 && card_rank_histogram[1].1 == 1 {
            self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::Pair)
        }

        // Check to see if we should return early
        if self.poker_hand_type.is_some() {
            return Ok(());
        }

        match (self.have_straight(), self.have_flush()) {
            (false, false) => self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::HighCard),
            (false, true) => self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::Flush),
            (true, false) => self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::Straight),
            (true, true) => {
                let mut ranks: Vec<u8> = self.cards.iter().map(|card| card.name.clone()).collect();
                ranks.sort();
                if ranks[0] == 10 {
                    self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::RoyalFlush);
                } else {
                    self.poker_hand_type = Some(PokerHandType::StraightFlush);
                }
            }
        }

        match self.poker_hand_type {
            None => Err("We unable to figure out your poker hand type"),
            Some(ref _hand_type) => Ok(()),
        }
    }
```
The set_hand_type method first checks to see of we have 5 cards in our hand. The is a mandatory step because our code was written with the assumption of our hands only have 5 cards. If we have more than 5 cards, then some of our code will not work as expected.

Next, we set self.poker_hand_type to None. This is important because we will use this value to check to see if we should return early. For example, If self.poker_hand_type is set to Some, then we know that we have deduced our poker hand type and we have no need run any more checks.

After that, we call our card_rank_histogram method to obtain the count of the card ranks which are ordered by count and then rank in reverse order so that the largest values appear first in the tuple. Knowing this, we use the card rank histogram to check the cases for Four Of A Kind, Full House, Three of a Kind, Two Pair and Pair. If any of these cases are true, we set self.poker_hand_type to the appropriate poker hand type.

At this point, we check to see if self.poker_hand_type is set. If so, we return early. If not, it means that we still need to check the other cases. The other cases are flush related cases and the straight related cases. We use a match statement to list out the cases of (have_flush, have_straight). For each case, we set self.poker_hand_type appropriately.

By this point, we have checked all of the possible poker hand cases. In theory, self.poker_hand_type should be set by now. However, there is always the possiblity that some part of our code isn't correct. As such, we end the method by checking to see if self.poker_hand_type was set. If it was set, we return an Ok. If it was not set, we return an error.
